**Database normalization** is the process of organizing the columns (attributes) and tables (relations) of a relational database to minimize data redundancy. Normalization of the relational schema removes repeating data.

Normalization involves decomposing a table into less redundant (and smaller) tables without losing information; defining foreign keys in the old table referencing the primary keys of the new ones. The objective is to isolate data so that additions, deletions, and modifications of an attribute can be made in just one table and then propagated through the rest of the database using the defined foreign keys.

A typical example of normalization is that an entity's unique ID is stored everywhere in the system but its name is held in only one table. The name can be updated more easily in one row of one table. A typical update in such an example would be the RIM company changing its name to BlackBerry. That update would be done in one place and immediately the correct "BlackBerry" name would be displayed throughout the system.

**Advantages of normalized databases?**

1. Smaller database:
    * By eliminating duplicate data, you will be able to reduce the overall size of the database.
2. Better performance:
    * Narrow tables: Having more fine-tuned tables allows your tables to have less columns and allows you to fit more records per data page.
    * Fewer indexes per table mean faster maintenance tasks such as index rebuilds.
    * Only join tables that you need.
1. More efficient data structure.
1. Avoid redundant fields or columns.
1. More flexible data structure i.e. we should be able to add new rows and data values easily.
1. Better understanding of data.
1. Ensures that distinct tables exist when necessary.
    * Easier to maintain data structure i.e. it is easy to perform operations and complex queries can be easily handled.
    * Minimizes data duplication.
    * Close modeling of real world entities, processes and their relationships.